docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. Hyperclip documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec 21 16:27:45 2021.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Hyperclip
=========

This Python 3.5+ package implements volume computation of hypercubes clipped by hyperplanes.
All methods implemented here have been proposed by Yunhi Cho and Seonhwa Kim (2020) in the article `"Volume of Hypercubes Clipped by Hyperplanes and Combinatorial Identities." <https://doi.org/10.13001/ela.2020.5085>`_. An arxiv paper is available `here <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.07768.pdf>`_.

Installation
------------

Hyperclip is available through `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/hyperclip/>`_, and may be installed using ``pip``: ::

   $ pip install hyperclip

Introduction
------------

The package is essentially composed by two classes : :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperplane` and :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperclip`.

* :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperplane` allows users to create a n-dimensional hyperplane defined as :math:`a.x + r \geq 0`. It is possible to directly set :math:`a` and :math:`r` or to provide :math:`n` distinct points which belongs to the hyperplane, i.e :math:`a.x + r = 0`.
* :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperclip` allows users to create an hyperclip object. It aims to compute the volume of :math:`A.X+R \leq 0` for :math:`X` inside the uniform hypercube :math:`[0,1]^n`. It is possible to directly set :math:`A` and :math:`R` or to set a list of :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperplane` objects.



Example code
------------

Here's an example showing the usage of :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperclip` for a 2-dimensional case.
The result provided by Hyperclip is compared to a MonteCarlo volume estimation.
::

    import numpy as np
    import hyperclip
    from matplotlib import pyplot as plt

    n = 2
    m = 3

    np.random.seed(29)
    hyperplanes = [hyperclip.Hyperplane().set_by_points(np.random.random((n,n))) for i_m in range(m)]
    np.random.seed(None)
    
    X = np.random.random((10**6,n))

    id_pos_side = np.ones(X.shape[0])
    for hyp in hyperplanes:
        id_pos_side = np.all((id_pos_side, hyp.side(X)), axis=0)

    fig, axs = plt.subplots()
    axs.set_aspect('equal', 'box')
    plt.scatter(X[id_pos_side, 0], X[id_pos_side, 1], s=2, color='gray')

    for hyp in hyperplanes:
        sol = hyp.compute_n_solutions()
        x_a, y_a, x_b, y_b = sol.flat
        
        a = (y_b-y_a)/(x_b-x_a)
        b = y_a - x_a * a
        
        y_0 = b
        y_1 = a * 1 + b
        
        plt.plot([0, 1], [y_0, y_1])   
    
    hc = hyperclip.Hyperclip().set_hyperplanes(hyperplanes)
    
    vol = hc.volume()
    
    plt.text(0.25,0.2, "10**6 MonteCarlo : "+str(round(id_pos_side.mean(),4)))
    plt.text(0.25,0.1, "Hyperclip : "+str(round(vol,4)))
    
    plt.xlim([0,1])
    plt.ylim([0,1])
    plt.show()

.. image:: figures/example_2d.png
    :height: 400px
    :align: center
    :alt: example_2d

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   
   api
    
    
Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

adding inria gitlab on the doc

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. Hyperclip documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Dec 21 16:27:45 2021.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Hyperclip
=========

This Python 3.5+ package implements volume computation of hypercubes clipped by hyperplanes.
All methods implemented here have been proposed by Yunhi Cho and Seonhwa Kim (2020) in the article `"Volume of Hypercubes Clipped by Hyperplanes and Combinatorial Identities." <https://doi.org/10.13001/ela.2020.5085>`_. An arxiv paper is available `here <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.07768.pdf>`_.

The source code is available on the `Inria Gitlab instance <https://gitlab.inria.fr/fmazy/hyperclip>`_.

Installation
------------

Hyperclip is available through `PyPI <https://pypi.org/project/hyperclip/>`_, and may be installed using ``pip``: ::

   $ pip install hyperclip

Introduction
------------

The package is essentially composed by two classes : :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperplane` and :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperclip`.

* :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperplane` allows users to create a n-dimensional hyperplane defined as :math:`a.x + r \geq 0`. It is possible to directly set :math:`a` and :math:`r` or to provide :math:`n` distinct points which belongs to the hyperplane, i.e :math:`a.x + r = 0`.
* :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperclip` allows users to create an hyperclip object. It aims to compute the volume of :math:`A.X+R \leq 0` for :math:`X` inside the uniform hypercube :math:`[0,1]^n`. It is possible to directly set :math:`A` and :math:`R` or to set a list of :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperplane` objects.


Example code
------------

Here's an example showing the usage of :class:`~hyperclip.Hyperclip` for a 2-dimensional case.
The result provided by Hyperclip is compared to a MonteCarlo volume estimation.
::

    import numpy as np
    import hyperclip
    from matplotlib import pyplot as plt

    n = 2
    m = 3

    np.random.seed(29)
    hyperplanes = [hyperclip.Hyperplane().set_by_points(np.random.random((n,n))) for i_m in range(m)]
    np.random.seed(None)
    
    X = np.random.random((10**6,n))

    id_pos_side = np.ones(X.shape[0])
    for hyp in hyperplanes:
        id_pos_side = np.all((id_pos_side, hyp.side(X)), axis=0)

    fig, axs = plt.subplots()
    axs.set_aspect('equal', 'box')
    plt.scatter(X[id_pos_side, 0], X[id_pos_side, 1], s=2, color='gray')

    for hyp in hyperplanes:
        sol = hyp.compute_n_solutions()
        x_a, y_a, x_b, y_b = sol.flat
        
        a = (y_b-y_a)/(x_b-x_a)
        b = y_a - x_a * a
        
        y_0 = b
        y_1 = a * 1 + b
        
        plt.plot([0, 1], [y_0, y_1])   
    
    hc = hyperclip.Hyperclip().set_hyperplanes(hyperplanes)
    
    vol = hc.volume()
    
    plt.text(0.25,0.2, "10**6 MonteCarlo : "+str(round(id_pos_side.mean(),4)))
    plt.text(0.25,0.1, "Hyperclip : "+str(round(vol,4)))
    
    plt.xlim([0,1])
    plt.ylim([0,1])
    plt.show()

.. image:: figures/example_2d.png
    :height: 400px
    :align: center
    :alt: example_2d

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   
   api
    
    
Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
